README.md, before:

# ManifoldGL: Information-Geometric Bundle Adapters for LLMs

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
![Python 3.10+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-blue.svg)
![PyTorch 2.6](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-2.6-ee4c2c.svg)
![Status: Research](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Research_Preview-purple.svg)

<div align="center">

[![Interactive Manifold Topology](igbundle_topology.png)](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/jesusvilela/IGBundle-LLM/blob/main/igbundle_topology_lite.html)

**Figure 1**: *Interactive visualization of the IGBundle fiber space projected onto a Hyperbolic manifold. Click to explore.*

[**📄 Unified Project Thesis (PDF)**](IGBundle_Thesis.pdf)

</div>

---

## 1. Abstract
**ManifoldGL** introduces a novel parameter-efficient fine-tuning method that adapts Large Language Models (LLMs) by enforcing **Information-Geometric** constraints. Unlike standard LoRA, which updates weight matrices in Euclidean space, ManifoldGL models the semantic latent space as a **Fiber Bundle** over a **Hyperbolic Base Manifold**. This structure explicitly represents the hierarchical nesting of concepts (entailment cones) and ensures that inference trajectories remain within the valid "Manifold of Meaning", significantly reducing hallucination in reasoning tasks.

## 2. Mathematical Formulation
The framework is grounded in differential geometry and sheaf theory.

### 2.1 The Fiber Bundle Model
We define the semantic space as a bundle $\pi: E \to M$:
*   **Base Manifold ($M$)**: A constant negative curvature space ($\mathbb{H}^n$) representing the hierarchical organization of general concepts.
*   **Fiber ($F_x$)**: The vector space of specific token instantiations attached to each concept $x \in M$.
*   **Section ($\sigma$)**: A neural activation is treated as a local section $\sigma: U \subset M \to E$, constrained by the connection $\nabla$.

### 2.2 Curvature and Concavity
Standard LLMs suffer from "Semantic Drift" because their flat Euclidean geometry cannot efficiently embed hierarchical trees (Sarkar, 2011). ManifoldGL enforces **Hyperbolic Concavity**:
$$ \kappa(x) < 0 \quad \forall x \in M $$
This ensures that the volume of the semantic space expands exponentially, providing sufficient capacity for deep conceptual hierarchies.

## 3. System Architecture

The repository is structured to separate geometric kernels from model adapters.

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Base LLM (Qwen2.5-7B)] -->|Input Token| B(IGBundle Adapter)
    B -->|Project| C{Input Projection}
    C -->|Map| D[Hyperbolic Manifold Kernel]
    D -->|Transport| E{Parallel Transport}
    E -->|Map| F[Fiber Space]
    F -->|Output| A
    
    subgraph "Auxiliary Crew (Swarm)"
        G[Geometric Analyst]
        H[Optimization Agent]
        I[Thesis Preserver]
        G -->|Verify| D
    end
```

### directory Structure
*   `src/igbundle/geometry`: Core geometric implementations (Hyperbolic metrics, Fisher Information Matrix approximations).
*   `generate_braintop_viz.py`: Tool for generating topological visualizations (Braintop integration).
*   `auxiliary_crew.py`: A 50-agent autonomous swarm that continuously verifies the geometric integrity of the codebase.
*   `eval_arc.py`: Scientific evaluation pipeline with bootstrap confidence intervals.

## 4. Experimental Validation

### 4.1 ARC-AGI Benchmark
We evaluated ManifoldGL on the ARC-AGI dataset, focusing on tasks requiring abstract reasoning and generalization.

| Metric | Baseline (Qwen-7B) | ManifoldGL (Checkpoint-600) | Improvement |
| :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **Accuracy** | 12.4% | **28.7%** | +16.3% |
| **MFR Compliance** | N/A | **94.2%** | N/A |
| **Curvature Stability** | -0.12 | **-0.98** | Highly Hyperbolic |

*> **Note**: Confidence intervals calculated using Wilson Score Interval ($\alpha=0.05$).*

### 4.2 Geometric Consistency
The **Auxiliary Swarm** monitors the `curvature_dampening` factor during training. Results show a consistent convergence towards negative curvature (Hyperbolicity), validating the bundle hypothesis.

## 5. Usage

### Installation
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Running the Auxiliary Swarm
To launch the autonomous verification crew:
```bash
python auxiliary_crew.py
```

### Scientific Evaluation
To reproduce the ARC-AGI results with strict confidence intervals:
```bash
python eval_arc.py --checkpoint output/igbundle_qwen7b/checkpoint-600 --limit 100 --mfr
```

---
*ManifoldGL is a research preview. See [IGBundle_Thesis.pdf](IGBundle_Thesis.pdf) for full rigorous derivation.*

Commit message:

Implement Poincare Geodesic Affinity (Scientific Review Fix)

README.md, after:

# ManifoldGL: Information-Geometric Bundle Adapters for LLMs

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
![Python 3.10+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-blue.svg)
![PyTorch 2.6](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-2.6-ee4c2c.svg)
![Status: Research](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Research_Preview-purple.svg)

<div align="center">

[![Interactive Manifold Topology](igbundle_topology.png)](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/jesusvilela/IGBundle-LLM/blob/main/igbundle_topology_lite.html)

**Figure 1**: *Interactive visualization of the IGBundle fiber space projected onto a Hyperbolic manifold. Click to explore.*

[**📄 Unified Project Thesis (PDF)**](IGBundle_Thesis.pdf)

</div>

---

## 1. Abstract
**ManifoldGL** introduces a novel parameter-efficient fine-tuning method that adapts Large Language Models (LLMs) by enforcing **Information-Geometric** constraints. Unlike standard LoRA, which updates weight matrices in Euclidean space, ManifoldGL models the semantic latent space as a **Fiber Bundle** over a **Hyperbolic Base Manifold**. This structure explicitly represents the hierarchical nesting of concepts (entailment cones) and ensures that inference trajectories remain within the valid "Manifold of Meaning", significantly reducing hallucination in reasoning tasks.

## 2. Mat
📐 Theoretical Foundation
Our work is grounded in Differential Geometry and Sheaf Theory. We hypothesize that the "meaning" of a token is not a fixed point in vector space, but a Fiber ($F$) over a structural manifold ($M$).

### Fiber Bundle Definition
*   **The Bundle Structure**: Fibers $F$ projected onto Base $M$.
*   **Base Manifold**: Modeled as a **Poincaré Ball** ($\mathbb{B}^n$) with hyperbolic geometry, naturally accommodating hierarchical semantic structures.
*   **Fibers**: Categorical distributions representing local attributes/types.

### Core Principles
1.  **Concave Manifold Hypothesis**: Semantic spaces are hyperbolic. We enforce this by projecting latent states into the Poincaré Ball and using **Geodesic Distance** for attention.
2.  **Sheaf Consistency**: Meaning must be locally consistent. Overlapping "patches" of context must satisfy gluing conditions defined by the Sheaf Consistency Loss.
3.  **Riemannian Adaptive Scaling**: The curvature and neighborhood size are modulated by a learned scalar field $\sigma$, acting as a local temperature.

### Sheaf Loss Equation
The Sheaf Consistency Loss enforcing topological agreement across patches.

---

🛠️ System Architecture
The IGBundle Adapter is a bottleneck architecture ($H \to 256 \to H$) injected into a Qwen2.5-7B base model.

### Key Mechanisms
*   **Manifold Projection**: $\mu_{hyp} = \tanh(\mu_{eucl})$.
*   **Geodesic Affinity**: Attention weights $A_{ij}$ are derived from the Riemannian distance $d_{\mathbb{B}}(\mu_i, \mu_j)$ scaled by $\sigma$.
*   **Message Passing**: Component interactions follow the geometry of the fiber bundle.
ncavity
Standard LLMs suffer from "Semantic Drift" because their flat Euclidean geometry cannot efficiently embed hierarchical trees (Sarkar, 2011). ManifoldGL enforces **Hyperbolic Concavity**:
$$ \kappa(x) < 0 \quad \forall x \in M $$
This ensures that the volume of the semantic space expands exponentially, providing sufficient capacity for deep conceptual hierarchies.

## 3. System Architecture

The repository is structured to separate geometric kernels from model adapters.

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Base LLM (Qwen2.5-7B)] -->|Input Token| B(IGBundle Adapter)
    B -->|Project| C{Input Projection}
    C -->|Map| D[Hyperbolic Manifold Kernel]
    D -->|Transport| E{Parallel Transport}
    E -->|Map| F[Fiber Space]
    F -->|Output| A
    
    subgraph "Auxiliary Crew (Swarm)"
        G[Geometric Analyst]
        H[Optimization Agent]
        I[Thesis Preserver]
        G -->|Verify| D
    end
```

### directory Structure
*   `src/igbundle/geometry`: Core geometric implementations (Hyperbolic metrics, Fisher Information Matrix approximations).
*   `generate_braintop_viz.py`: Tool for generating topological visualizations (Braintop integration).
*   `auxiliary_crew.py`: A 50-agent autonomous swarm that continuously verifies the geometric integrity of the codebase.
*   `eval_arc.py`: Scientific evaluation pipeline with bootstrap confidence intervals.

## 4. Experimental Validation

### 4.1 ARC-AGI Benchmark
We evaluated ManifoldGL on the ARC-AGI dataset, focusing on tasks requiring abstract reasoning and generalization.

| Metric | Baseline (Qwen-7B) | ManifoldGL (Checkpoint-600) | Improvement |
| :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **Accuracy** | 12.4% | **28.7%** | +16.3% |
| **MFR Compliance** | N/A | **94.2%** | N/A |
| **Curvature Stability** | -0.12 | **-0.98** | Highly Hyperbolic |

*> **Note**: Confidence intervals calculated using Wilson Score Interval ($\alpha=0.05$).*

### 4.2 Geometric Consistency
The **Auxiliary Swarm** monitors the `curvature_dampening` factor during training. Results show a consistent convergence towards negative curvature (Hyperbolicity), validating the bundle hypothesis.

## 5. Usage

### Installation
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Running the Auxiliary Swarm
To launch the autonomous verification crew:
```bash
python auxiliary_crew.py
```

### Scientific Evaluation
To reproduce the ARC-AGI results with strict confidence intervals:
```bash
python eval_arc.py --checkpoint output/igbundle_qwen7b/checkpoint-600 --limit 100 --mfr
```

---
*ManifoldGL is a research preview. See [IGBundle_Thesis.pdf](IGBundle_Thesis.pdf) for full rigorous derivation.*
